This is a video from the publisher of Wendover, produced by Audible
Recently, I have been busy with nothing, check the old flight schedule.
Airlines often publish these timetable booklets with fares and flight times
When I saw the timetable issued by American Airlines in 1967, I found an interesting thing
From the timetable, the flight time from New York to Los Angeles is 5 hours and 43 minutes
But this may not be the case
American Airlines Flight 3 departs from New York JFK Airport at 12 noon
And arrived in Los Angeles at 2:43 in the afternoon. There is a time difference of 3 hours
Today, American Airlines Flight 3 still takes off from New York JFK Airport at noon
But the difference is that the time to arrive in Los Angeles is 3:27 pm
44 minutes more than it was in 1967
In fact, this is a universal phenomenon. Almost all flights are more than in the 1960s
Flight time is longer.
Generally speaking, the flight time in the true sense, that is, the actual time spent by the plane flying in the air, is the same.
But now, the congestion and delays at the airport and the ground have been counted in the flight time, which caused the flight time to be extended.
Even so, in any case, the plane we took was indeed flying slower.
In 1967, humans had not yet landed on the moon, and the computers at that time still seemed to fill the entire room like this.
But at that time, wherever we flew, we were as fast as now, even faster than now.
Why hasn't the flight speed increased in the past 50 years, but has become slower?
First look at three commonly used aircraft engines: turboprop engines (turboprop engines), turbofan engines (turbofan engines) and turbojet engines (turbojet engines).
Each engine has a most economical flight speed range
You can see this turboprop on most aircraft with propellers
For this kind of engine, almost all the thrust comes from the propeller
Although the turbine used to drive the propeller can suck in and accelerate part of the air flow,
But the air flow rate from the engine is not very fast, so the engine exhaust can only contribute less than 10% of the thrust
As far as turboprop engines are concerned, because of their low purchase and operating costs, many short-distance regional commuter aircraft
All use turboprops as power
Of course, no aircraft using this engine can fly very fast.
The most economical speed of turboprop engines is between 325 miles per hour and 375 miles per hour.
If you need to fly faster, it is best to use a turbofan engine
Now you can see turbofan engines everywhere
Most commercial aircraft are powered by turbofan engines.
Turbo fan, as the name implies, air first needs to flow through a fan
As you can see in front of the engine
Then part of the air will flow into the internal combustion chamber
Push the turbine to do work, used to drive the fan. A part of the air will pass through the periphery of the turbine.
The part of the air passing from the periphery of the turbine actually passes through the outside duct. This part of the air is also accelerated
And the main thrust of the turbofan engine is provided by the airflow ejected from the inner channel
Most modern airplanes fly between 400-620 miles per hour, which is also the most economical speed of turbofan engines
If you want to fly at supersonic speeds, which means that the speed exceeds 767 miles per hour, you need a turbojet engine (turbojet engine).
Turbojet engines are very similar to turbofan engines. The difference is that all air flows through the turbine.
No external culvert
This allows the aircraft to reach very fast speeds, but at the cost of consuming a lot of fuel
The turbojet engine's economic speed is between 1300-1400 miles per hour
What really determines the efficiency of the aircraft engine is a value, called the "bypass ratio"
This is the ratio of the external culvert air flow and the engine core (internal tract) air flow
This is the case. In fact, driving a larger fan does not need to consume too much energy.
But if you need more air to enter the engine, you need to increase the fuel supply
In other words, under the same energy consumption, if more air can flow through the external culvert, you can get more thrust
Therefore, this is like a law, that is, the greater the bypass ratio, the higher the engine efficiency
Check out this GE GEnx engine
This is a new ultra-high efficiency engine used on Boeing 787 Dreamliner and Boeing 747-8i Intercontinental airliner.
You can see that the size of the fan is much larger than the turbine
This is because this engine has a bypass ratio of 10:1. Means the air flow around the turbine (external duct)
10 times the flow into the turbine
In comparison, the efficiency of the older CFM56 engine produced by CFM International is lower
You can see that the size of the fan is not so big compared to the turbine
Because the bypass ratio of this engine is only 5.9:1, but it still belongs to the large bypass ratio
If compared with Pratt & Whitney's JT8D engine, the gap will be more obvious
Because the bypass ratio of the JT8D engine is only 0.96:1, its efficiency is even lower
But still much more efficient than Rolls-Royce’s Olympus 593 engine
Because the 593 engine is a turbojet engine
As I said before, in the case of turbojet engines, all the air must pass through the turbine
No external culvert
Therefore, the bypass ratio of the turbojet engine is 0:1, also known as "no external bypass engine"
Since 100% of the air passes through the engine and through the turbine, this leads to
Need to consume more fuel. Fuel consumption is higher than the previously introduced GEnx, CFM56, and even JT8D engines
The Concorde airliner uses a non-ducted Rolls-Royce Olympus 593 engine. Every 1 mile (1.61 km) of Concorde
21.25 kg of fuel will be burned. In contrast, the Boeing 787 Dreamliner uses a GEnx engine with a bypass ratio of 10:1
Each mile (1.61 kilometers) burns only 8.5 kg of fuel. However, even when compared to medium-sized aircraft like the Boeing 787, the Concorde
Can only be regarded as a small plane
Concorde can only take 100 people, but 787 Dreamliner can take 291 people
This can be calculated by the amount of fuel consumed by each person in a Concorde, each person consumes 17 liters of fuel per 100 kilometers of flight
The Boeing 787 Dreamliner consumes only 2.3 liters of fuel per 100 kilometers of flight
In the end, Air France and British Airways, the only two airlines operating Concorde aircraft
Also unable to undertake the flight of the Concorde
Because less than 1/3 of the passengers actually bought a ticket to take the Concorde
The remaining passengers are redeemed using accumulated journeys or transferred from first class on other flights
After all, a Concorde flight costs at least US$7,500 today to buy a one-way ticket from London to New York
The flight time is only 3 hours. But the seat is like this
There is almost no difference from the seats of the economy class of today's aircraft
When the Concorde aircraft just asked the city, the first class of other aircraft was like this
Although it looks beautiful, this is just a widened economy class seat
It is really difficult to sleep on such a seat
However, when the Concorde retired from operation in 2003, the first-class seats became like this,
And it can be spread out like a bed
So many people would choose to spend 7 hours on such a seat, rather than squeeze on a small seat like the Concorde
Spend 3 hours
In 2000, British Airways introduced this fully reclining seat even in business class
But the fare is much lower than the Concorde. When flying over the Atlantic Ocean, travelers can lie flat and sleep
Therefore, riding a Concorde is no longer a luxury.
The original intention of designing Concorde was to provide business people with an efficient way to cross the Atlantic
However, if the seat can lie completely flat, passengers flying to Europe
You can leave the United States at night, sleep on the plane, and wake up to Europe
Actually did not waste time
Neither luxurious nor efficient, the Concorde completed its last commercial flight on October 24, 2003
And declared the end of the era of supersonic commercial flight
Also, airlines really don’t care much about flight speed
Flying speed is just a selling point to attract customers
The cost of the aircraft itself is only a fraction of the total flight cost.
Therefore, airlines will not use the method of increasing speed to increase the number of times the aircraft is used
Generally speaking, the life of the aircraft is related to the takeoff and landing cycle, that is, to the number of aircraft takeoffs and landings
The Boeing 787 Dreamliner can withstand 44,000 takeoffs and landings. The Boeing 787's suggested selling price is usually higher than the actual selling price
Much higher, each aircraft reached $224.6 million
This means that each take-off and landing will cost more than 5000 dollars.
Coupled with fuel costs, from New York to London, fuel costs also exceeded 15,000 US dollars
Therefore, airlines let the aircraft fly at the most fuel efficient speed possible
This speed is almost always within the range of 500-550 miles per hour
The consequence of this is that the flight speed is much lower than the speed of sound-767 miles per hour
Why can't the plane fly close to the speed of sound?
This chart shows the resistance of the aircraft at different speeds
Between 0.8 and 1.2 Mach belongs to the "transonic" range (1 Mach is equivalent to 1 times the speed of sound)
Within this range, the airflow around the aircraft is not completely subsonic or supersonic.
Essentially, some airflows have exceeded the speed of sound, but there are still some airflows that have not reached the speed of sound
So starting from Mach 0.8, part of the airflow has exceeded the speed of sound, which will increase the resistance sharply
And reduce the aircraft's handling stability. So flying at speeds close to the speed of sound is very dangerous
You need to fly far above the speed of sound or far below the speed of sound to be safe
When the plane is flying at transonic speed, you can see this phenomenon
Look at these stripes especially like scratches on the camera lens. Although this is hard to see.
These stripes are actually miniature supersonic shock waves
Because of the considerable resistance to air flow, when flying at a speed of 0.8 to 1.2 Mach
It actually consumes more fuel than flying above Mach 1.2. This is why we have the number 613.8 mph
This number is almost the speed limit of a modern subsonic jet
Although it is cool and exciting to take a supersonic flight across the Atlantic in 3 hours
But as far as airlines are concerned, what they really want is to be as fast as jumping into a pond and have a profit of 100 or 200 dollars in minutes.
And this is now easier to achieve.
The speed of the aircraft today has allowed us to fly to any place on earth within 24 hours
This is fast enough for most people
For most people, the real factor restricting travel is cost, not speed. and so
Aircraft manufacturers and airlines will continue to work to reduce travel costs, not travel time
One last word. Time is the enemy of very few privileged people. And cost is the enemy of most people
This video was made by Audible.
Audible is a leading online audio provider, but I believe you have heard of it before.
So I will only tell you how I use audible
I like reading but there are times when I cannot read paper books
For example, when working, cooking or even editing videos. So I downloaded a lot of audio books
Through Audible, I can learn no matter what I do
If you like me to listen to something while working, you can make boring work more interesting
I recently started listening to Skyfaring, this is a book written by 747 pilot Mark Vanhoenacker
Allows you to understand the flight from the perspective of a pilot, but it reads more like reading a novel or memoir
Not as boring as reading a lot of professional books
The main thing is that you can listen to this book for free now.
Audible gives you 30 days of free trial time, you can log in to the Audible.com/Wendover link to get it
This is a good book, and Audible gives a nice link, so go to Audible.com/Wendover.
Let's see
In addition, you can also go to atreon.com/wendoverproductions to support Wendover publishers
Follow me on Twitter @WendoverPro, my latest video introduces how the US President travels
You can also go to the following columns to see. The most important point, please subscribe to the channel
So that you can watch it as soon as the new video is released in the future
Thanks again for watching this video, see you in two weeks, I will post a new video